 1. React is one of the most popular Java Script frameworks for front-end development. It would bе right way to say that this is a library. But with its environment React became one of standards of development SPA.
 2. Jordan Walke, software engineer worked in Facebook create it in 2011. React was wery useful to develop personally pages of social network users, because there was more various content, changed every minutes. Then React was implemented in Instagram. In 2013 it became an open source project.
 3. The first thing I noticed when I saw React was the use of HTML tags inside Java Script. Jsx components are very similar to regular HTML. They use a declarative programming style. Do not indicate that you need to create an element, but describe how the created element will look like.
 4. In the beginning, React was based on class components. All components were an extension of the React.Component class. But modern React is based on functional components. Instead of lifecycle methods, hooks began to be used. Code is shorter and easier to understand.
5. All the data needed by the component is passed to it from the parent components. The component itself cannot change its representation. Callback functions come into it. By calling them, the component changes the state at the top. And then it's rendered.
6. The key technology that was used in React is virtual dom. The browser engine uses a very slow dom-tree redrawing system. It recursively iterates through all the elements before reaching the desired one and changing it. React is faster and more accurate. It creates a copy of the real DOM in the JS object, makes all the changes inside it. And during rendering it changes the real DOM in the right places.
7. Any large application needs a single data center, a single source of truth. Usually, redux or mobX libraries are used with React. All asynchronous work with data from the server can pass through them. Regular redux required writing long switch cases. Now it is recommended to use redux-toolkit. It is more compact and useful.
8. There is an easy way to get started with React. This is the magic Create-React-App command. You may not know anything about Webpack, Babel, Eslint, but still start working with React. You type npx create-react-app into the console. An application is created in which you can make additional components, add npm modules to expand its functionality.
9. When you use classic HTML routing, there are different pages on the server that you can follow links between. But React creates a SPA. Which has one single HTML page with one entry point with id "root". But its user should not be aware of this. And thanks to virtual routing, he uses links within the page and can enter the addresses of various pages on your site in the address bar.
10. SPAs have many advantages, but also many disadvantages. One of them is related to the fact that search robots do not see the content on their pages and do not index them into the search results. To solve this problem, the Next JS package was created. It renders the SPA on the server side. In this way, search engines index pages, and page loading is accelerated for all users.
